### 2006 GeneDB *S. pombe* survey, question 17 responses

<p><strong>How have the data and curation helped your research? Please provide specific examples and publications if possible. These examples will be helpful to secure future funding.</strong></p>
<ol>
<li>&quot;Published expression profiles&quot; has been very useful and informative.</li>
<li>It helped me to study some genome wide approche.</li>
<li>Vey useful and crucial for our reserach, especially downloads for microarray work, browsers, GO terms etc and also gene name issues</li>
<li>Invaluable to most of my research. Example publications which have relied on this: Aves SJ et al. (2002) The mei3 region of the Schizosaccharomyces pombe genome. Yeast 19, 521-527 Hunt C et al. (2001) Subtelomeric sequence from the right arm of Schizosaccharomyces pombe chromosome 1 contains seven permease genes. Yeast 18, 355-361 Xiang Z et al. (2000) The mating-type region of Schizosaccharomyces pombe h-S 972: sequencing and analysis of 69 kb including the expressed mat1 locus. Yeast 16, 1061-1067 Xiang Z et al. (2000) Analysis of 114 kb of DNA sequence from fission yeast chromosome 2 immediately centromere-distal to his5. Yeast 16, 1405-1411</li>
<li>Helpful on a daily basis-I can&#39;t imagine trying to work without it!</li>
<li>Vital for gene searches.</li>
<li>-</li>
<li>I used this data to choose gene as probe for the northern blot, to choose oligos for the PCRs, to have a general view of the phenotypes in mutants strains, to confirm, or not, previous results.</li>
<li>1. Search for S. cerevisiae orthologues 2. pubilished literatures of interesting genes 3. News of S. pombe community (e.g. conferences)</li>
<li>We searched the genedb database for genes with no homologs in cerevisiae as candidates for RNAi mediated chromatin modification machinery and are currently knocking them out and assaying their effect.</li>
<li>web sites</li>
<li>Helped to understand my data and identify links to homologs/orthologs in other species, especially budding yeast.</li>
<li>The genome wide deletion project has used the annotated sequence ( Wood et al Nature 2002) as the basis for constructing the deletions. The deletion database is linked to gene DB and the bioinformatic tools will be used for analysis of the deletion dataset</li>
<li>For our research we use the pombe gene DB everyday, we use the SMART program, Fasta, consult the expression profiles from the microarrays etc. Tajadura, V., Garc&radic;&ne;a, B., Garc&radic;&ne;a, I., Garc&radic;&ne;a, P., and S&radic;&deg;nchez, Y. (2004) &quot; Schizosaccharomyces pombe Rgf3p is a specific Rho1-GEF that regulates cell wall b-glucan biosynthesis through the GTPase Rho1p? Journal of Cell Science 117: 6163-6174 Garc&radic;&ne;a-Cort&radic;&copy;s, J. C., Carnero, E., Ishiguro, J., S&radic;&deg;nchez, Y., Duran, A. and Ribas, J. C.(2005) &quot;The novel fission yeast (1,3)-a-D-glucan synthase catalityc subunit Bgs4p is essential during both cytokinesis and polarized growth ? Journal of Cell Science 118: 157-174 Garc&radic;&ne;a, I., Jim&radic;&copy;nez, D., Mart&radic;&ne;n, V., Dur&radic;&deg;n, A. S&radic;&deg;nchez, Y. (2005) &quot; Agn1p, a putative a-1,3 glucanase, is required for cell separation in Schizosaccharomyces pombe? Biology of the Cell 97: 569-576 Garc&radic;&ne;a, I., Mart&radic;&ne;n, V., Tajadura, V., Toda, T. and S&radic;&deg;nchez, Y. (2006) &quot;Synthesis of a?glucans in fission yeast spores is carried out by three a-glucan synthase paralogs, Mok12p, Mok13p and Mok14p? Mol Microbiol. 59:836-853. Garc&radic;&ne;a, P., Tajadura, V., Garc&radic;&ne;a, I., and S&radic;&deg;nchez, Y. (2006) ?Rgf1p is a specific Rho1-GEF that coordinates cell polarization with cell wall biogenesis in fission yeast? Molecular Biology of the Cell. 17:1620-1631</li>
<li>identification and structural analyses of putative genes ...</li>
<li>I use genedb to access sequence information easily which I can then use to design primers/constructs for my research. I also use it to obtain information quickly about genes that I am interested in such as the motif information.</li>
<li>cloned a gene. testing linkage.</li>
<li>The database is an essential part of our &quot;gene discovery&quot; studies. Examples in which the database has facilliated our studies include: 1. Martin, V., Chahwan, C., Gao, H., Blais, V., Wohlschlegel, J., Yates 3rd, J.R., McGowan, C.H., Russell, P. (2006) Sws1 is a conserved regulator of homologous recombination in eukaryotic cells. EMBO J. in press. 2. Mart&radic;&ne;n, V., Rodr&radic;&ne;guez-Gabriel, M.A., McDonald, W. H., Watt, S., Yates 3rd , J.R., B&radic;&sect;hler, J., Russell, P. (2006) Cip1 and Cip2 are novel RNA-Recognition-Motif proteins that counteract Csx1 function during oxidative stress. Mol. Biol. Cell. 17, 1176-1183. 3. Noguchi, E., Noguchi, C., McDonald, W. H., Yates, J. R. 3rd,, Russell, P. (2004) Swi1 and Swi3 are components of a replication fork protection complex in fission yeast. Mol. Cell. Biol. 24, 8342-8355. 4. Saitoh, S., Chabes, A., McDonald, W. H., Thelander, L., Yates 3rd, J. R., Russell, P. (2002). Cid13 is a cytoplasmic poly(A) polymerase that regulates ribonucleotide reductase mRNA. Cell 109, 563-573.</li>
<li>Current work on newly identified cytoskeletal proteins. Cell cycle analysis. Phenotype &amp; Protein Complex analysis for understanding mechanisms across species.</li>
<li>The data allowed us to make specific gene knockouts and fusions. Publications are in preparation, but not yet available. Please put an announcement link of how to submit such publications on the S.pombe GD entry page and we can submit them as they come in. We only started working in S. pombe because the genome was finished and partially annotated.</li>
<li>Genome sequence. J Cell Sci. 2004 May 1;117(Pt 11):2283-93.</li>
<li>The curation correctly suggested that what we had previously thought one large gene was in fact two closely-spaced genes (cid14 and pfs2). This information was vitally important for two recent publications: 1. Win, T. Z., Draper, S., Read, R. L., Pearce, J., Norbury, C. J. &amp; Wang, S. W. Requirement of fission yeast Cid14 in polyadenylation of rRNAs. Mol Cell Biol 26, 1710-21 (2006). 2. Wang, S. W., Asakawa, K., Win, T. Z., Toda, T. &amp; Norbury, C. J. Inactivation of the pre-mRNA cleavage and polyadenylation factor Pfs2 in fission yeast causes lethal cell cycle defects. Mol Cell Biol 25, 2288-96 (2005).</li>
<li>It helped me to find bgs4+ and clone it from its cosmid. It has been published in: The novel fission yeast (1,3)beta-D-glucan synthase catalytic subunit Bgs4p is essential during both cytokinesis and polarized growth. (2005) J. Cell Sci. 118:157-174. It also helped me to delete bg3+ and to find many things of myosin II proteins, heavy, light and regulatory proteins.</li>
<li>I&#39;ve used the LIST Download feature to help me curate a database for microarray analysis.</li>
<li>Facilitated identification by microarray hybridization of gene clusters regulated by TFIIH-associated kinase in fission yeast (Lee et al., Mol. Biol. Cell 16:2734-2745, 2005). Enabled mass spectrometric identification of subunits of fission yeast Cdk9 complex, ortholog of mammalian P-TEFb (Pei et al., Mol. Cell. Biol. 26: 777-788, 2006).</li>
<li>We have done many genetic screens, cloned genes from libraries, done a small amount of sequencing and then used GeneDB to identify the gene. Many publications have resulted from this type of strategy.</li>
<li>It is fast and easy to find information on genes that I find a new interest in, before I devote time and energy to learn more. There is good information about potential protein interactions, and it is wonderful to have information all in one place and format.</li>
<li>In our reaserch using MS-specs to identify the interactants with a protein of our interest of which expression is restricted only during sporulation, links to microarray data provided by Dr. Bahler&#39;s team were very helpful to select candidates to focus on.</li>
<li>with information for my work</li>
<li>It has been fundamental to many research projects in my lab, in particular to the following ones: Blanco, M., Pelloquin, L. and Moreno, S. (2001). Fission yeast mfr1 activates APC and coordinates meiotic nuclear division with sporulation. J. Cell Sci. 114, 2135-2141. Cueille, N., Salimova, E., Esteban, V., Blanco, M.A., Moreno, S., Bueno, A. and Simanis, V. (2001). Flp1, the fission yeast orthologue of the S. cerevisiae CDC14 gene, is not required for cyclin degradation or rum1p stabilisation at the end of mitosis. J. Cell Sci. 114, 2649-2664. P&radic;&copy;rez-Hidalgo, L., Moreno, S. and San Segundo, P. (2003). Regulation of meiotic progression by the meiosis-specific chechpoint kinase Mek1 in fission yeast. J. Cell Sci. 116, 259-271. Mart&radic;&ne;n-Castellanos, C., Blanco, M., Rozal&radic;&copy;n, A.E., P&radic;&copy;rez-Hidalgo, L., Garc&radic;&ne;a, A.I., Conde, F., Mata, J., Ellermeier, C., Davis, L., San-Segundo, P., Smith, G.R. and Moreno, S. (2005). A large-scale screen in S. pombe identifies novel genes required for meiotic recombination and chromosome segregation. Curr. Biol. 15, 2056-2062.</li>
<li>We have done an screening in which expression profile during sexual diferentation and gene information have been constantly checked out. Data from our screening have been added to the data base. During the course of the project the data base gave us up-dating information about genes that were in study by other groups.</li>
<li>It has proved invaluable for identifying new genes, predicting possible gene function, strain engineering, and plasmid construction. This is an essential tool for our research, and has played a part in every one of our publications in the last few years (approximately 10 papers in prominent journals).</li>
<li>this is a crucial tool for all experiments. at the most basic level, finding regions of homology to genes of interest in other organisms and to genes identified in screens in pombe is indispensable. this should be self-evident to funding agencies and the value of pombe research is obvious from the numerous concepts and insights gained from it. can&#39;t have pombe research without this data and curation.</li>
<li>It is very easier to find a gene and get nucleotide and amino acid sequences than other databases. This database is very useful to speculate its function, lacalization etc, because it contains biochemical information, such as domain motif.</li>
<li>Current research on snoRNAs</li>
<li>design of all molecular biology/ cloning and protein analysis</li>
<li>very helpful. use often for designing tagging constructs</li>
<li>It has been very useful to focus my research in proteins wich have cell-wall caracteristics because in my lab we are interested in this kind of proteins. (Alonso-n&radic;&int;&radic;&plusmn;ez et al. Mol Biol Cell. 2005 Apr;16(4):2003-17)</li>
<li>Huang, Y., Garrison, P.N., and Barnes, L.D. Molecular cloning of the Schizosaccharomyces pombe gene encoding diadenosine 5&#39;, 5&quot;&#39;-P1, P4-tetraphosphate (Ap4A) asymmetrical hydrolase: sequence similarity with the histidine triad (HIT) protein family. Biochem. J. 312, 925-932 (1995). Ingram, S.W., Stratemann, S.A., and Barnes, L.D. Schizosaccharomyces pombe Aps1, a diadenosine 5&#39;, 5&quot;&#39;-P1, P6-hexaphosphate hydrolase that is a member of the nudix (mutT) family of hydrolases: cloning of the gene and characterization of the purified enzyme. Biochemistry 38, 3649-3655 (1999). Safrany, S. T., Ingram, S. W., Cartwright, J. L., Falck, J. R., McLennan, A. G., Barnes, L. D., and Shears, S. B. The diadenosine hexaphosphate hydrolases from Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Saccharomyces cerevisiae are homologues of the human diphosphoinositol polyphosphate phosphohydrolase: the significance of the overlapping substrate specificities in a mutT motif. J. Biol. Chem. 274, 21735-21740 (1999) Ingram, S. W. and Barnes, L. D. Disruption and overexpression of the Schizosaccharomyces pombe aph1 gene and the effects on intracellular diadenosine 5&#39;, 5&#39;&#39;&#39;-P1, P4-tetraphosphate (Ap4A), ATP, and ADP concentrations. Biochem. J. 350, 663-669 (2000)</li>
<li>extremely useful as an everyday tool e.g. for designing primers and retrieving an overview of genes of interest</li>
<li>Don&#39;t know</li>
<li>I have used the data to get the sequences to clone S. pombe orthologs; also used the expression profile data ;and also identify the functions of many genes thht I have identified in my microarray experiments. We have just submitted a paper including all this information.</li>
<li>To know the position of a gene on the genome, Entrez Genome Map Viewer is insufficient and not useful, so GeneDB Genome Browser is necessary for my work.</li>
<li>finding homologs designing deletions designing epitope tagging</li>
<li>Mostly in gathering information on proteins identified in genetic screens and by MS analysis of purified protein complexes.</li>
<li>We have performed numberous genetic screens. We only needed very short sequences to find out what genes we had actually isolated. A few examples of these are as follows: Chen et al 1999; Chen et al 2000; Yen and Chang 2000; Papadaki et al 2002; Yen et al 2003.</li>
<li>The database allows me to do all of my recombinant DNA work very quickly and rapidly screen the role of various proteins in cell division. I&#39;ve only started using it recently (I just started my postdoc postion), but have used it so much I couldn&#39;t imagine where I would find the information if this was unavailable.</li>
<li>1. I have been doing a lot of search with LTRs, I love the BLUE colour easy to see LTRs in Artemis. They have made my life so much easier. 2. Ease of getting different amount DNA sequence at each end of the &#39;gene of interest&#39;, is extremely useful for genomic analysis and Southern blots. 3. Many references cited are extremely useful, e.g. about non-coding RNA (prl. I may have never seen that otherwise!</li>
<li>GeneDB is instrumental in quickly locating general information about all pombe genes, in addition to valuable bioinformatic tools.</li>
<li>The database has helped me to look up lists of genes I identify in the screens. In general, it&#39;s very helpful whenever I encouter a fission yeast gene which I don&#39;t know well about. Although these things are possible by other means (such as NCBI), GENE DB for S.pombe is so far most convenient as I need not to eliminate any entry of genes of any other organisms.</li>
<li>I am doing a lot of work on bioinformatics analysis of the mitotic cell cycle in various organisms. GeneDB is my reference database for S. pombe. I have published one paper specifically on the analysis of S. pombe data (PMID:16544289) for which GeneDB was extensively used.</li>
<li>excellent teaching tool</li>
<li>Identification of specific domains. Identification of homolgoues (Lorenz et al., 2004).</li>
<li>They are central to everything we do!</li>
<li>qq</li>
<li>I have screened an insertion library and cloned sequences by inverse pcr and used the database to identify loci and find about whether they are relevant candidates</li>
<li>finding orthologs, creating primers for tagging and knockouts</li>
<li>We have done a large proteomic screen of fission yeast protein. the annotation data was invaluable. The study is submitted for publication: Comparative proteomic and transcriptiomic profiling of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe Michael W. Schmidt1,2, Andres Houseman3, Alexander R. Ivanov1,2 Dieter A. Wolf1,2 Address: 1 NIEHS Center for Environmental Health Proteomics Facility, 2 Department of Genetics and Complex Diseases, 3 Department of Biostatistics, Harvard School of Public Health, 665 Huntington Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts, 02115, USA;</li>
<li>Used gene annotations to map DNA replication origins. Sequence data used for mapping origins, for identifying DNA sequence features (AT-hook domains), for mapping AT-rich islands. GeneDB regularly used as a first resource for characterisation of genes of interest as well as a resource for links to related databases.</li>
<li>We used the database to annotate our custom genome tiling arrays. No publications yet.</li>
<li>in general I use this database most frequently to do most of my work</li>
<li>the blast tool on S. pombe GeneDB was crucial for me to identify in fission yeast the orthologous subunits of a transcriptional complex conserved from budding yeast to humans.</li>
<li>The data and curation have been essential for my research. The data and curation have contributed significantly in grant writing and experimental design and for routine S. pombe molecular biology (i. e. for genetic crosses, we can see if two genes are likely to be linked, the database is our primary source of information for making gene mutations and disruptions and allows us to check if we might accidentally affect a neighboring gene with predicted functions). My three most recent papers simply would not exist without this resource. They are 1) Oliva A, Rosebrock A, Ferrezuelo F, Pyne S, Chen H, Skiena S, Futcher B, Leatherwood J., The cell cycle-regulated genes of Schizosaccharomyces pombe. PLoS Biol. 2005 Jul;3(7):e225. 2) Zhou C, Arslan F, Wee S, Krishnan S, Ivanov AR, Oliva A, Leatherwood J, Wolf DA., PCI proteins eIF3e and eIF3m define distinct translation initiation factor 3 complexes. BMC Biol. 2005 May 17;3(1):14. 3) Averbeck N, Sunder S, Sample N, Wise JA, Leatherwood J., Negative control contributes to an extensive program of meiotic splicing in fission yeast. Mol Cell. 2005 May 13;18(4):491-8. Two of these papers involve microarray analyses and the resource was used extensively in design of the microarrays themselves and even more extensively in interpretation of the microarray data. We typically use JavaTree free-ware to view cluster analyses of microarray data and we have this configured to link directly to the S. Pombe GeneDB. Our future use will rely much more heavily on the GO annotations as they become more complete and refined. Our recent publications often use the Sanger database as a reference for groups of related genes or even gene functions rather than referencing a long list of primary papers. For genomics studies, such a common accesable and stable resource is essential. The third of the recent papers, published in Molecular Cell, does not contain microarray data, but it too would have been completely impossible without the Sancer Center Pombe Information resources. We used information in many different ways to guide our discovery of a major program of splicing regulation during S. pombe meiosis that is reported in this paper. The resource is also proving absolutely essential to our progress in studying replication timing in S. pombe. In particular, Artemis has been invaluable. I often prefer to do blast searches via the Sanger center rather than NCBI, though the convenient links to NCBI and other resources such as SGD are quite appreciated Finally, I depend on the resource when I receive S. pombe related papers for review. Even for non - S. pombe related questions, I often think of a relevant gene-name for S. pombe and not for other organisms and so I can quickly find out what the ortholog may be and this sometimes gives me useful insights or background knowledge.</li>
<li>Use quite frequently to screen for new enzymes/binding domains. See Sanders et al Cell 2004</li>
<li>Very convenient database. I use it more as a reference information source than as bioinformatic tools.</li>
<li>It helped me to find and compare the differents sequences of genes or proteins of the family Bgs. Its is useful to find their expresion patrons.</li>
<li>To build KO strains and identify putative homologous proteins.</li>
<li>It has allowed me to easily access protein and DNA sequence for molecular work such as constructing knockouts or tagged proteins. Curation helps give insight as to what is known about gene of interest and its homologs and paralogs which help decide which direction to take with experiments.</li>
<li>Get info quickly</li>
<li>Analysing centromeres and telomeres Analysing specific gene regions. Retrieval of information and sequnce of Rad21 and other genes/orf analysed. Bernard P, Maure J.F., Partridge J.F., Genier S, Javerzat J.P., Allshire R.C. (2001) Requirement of heterochromatin for cohesion at centromeres. Science. 294:2539-42. Retrieval of information and sequnce of Chp1 and other genes/orf analysed. Partridge J.F., Scott K.S.C., Bannister, A.J., Kouzarides T., and Allshire R.C. (2002) A cis-acting element from the fission yeast mediates histone H3 methylation and recruitment of silencing factors and cohesin to an ectopic site. Curr Biol. 12: 1652. Retrieval on information and sequences features of H3/H4 .1/.2/.3 genes/ORFs Mellone, BG, Ball L, Suka N, Grunstein MR, Partridge JF, Allshire RC. (2003) Centromere silencing and function in fission yeast is governed by the amino terminus of histone H3. Curr Biol. 13: 1748-57. Retrieval on information and sequences features of Sim4 gene/ORF Pidoux, AL, Richardson, W, Allshire R.C. (2003) Sim 4: a novel fission yeast kinetochore protein required for centromeric silencing and chromosome segregation. J. Cell Biol. 161: 295. Retrival of information and features of various SET proteins in the S. pombe genome: Sanders, S. L., Portoso, M., Mata, J., Bahler, J., Allshire, R. C., and Kouzarides, T. (2004). Methylation of histone H4 lysine 20 controls recruitment of Crb2 to sites of DNA damage. Cell 119, 603-614. Retrieval of information and sequences feature of rpb7: Djupedal, I., Portoso, M., Sp&radic;&bull;hr, H., Bonilla, C., Gustafsson, C. M., Allshire, R. C. and Ekwall, K. (2005). RNA Pol II subunit Rpb7 promotes centromeric transcription and RNAi-directed chromatin silencing. Genes Dev. 19, 2301-2306.</li>
<li>The data has been very helpful in order to allow for the research of gene sequences, homologous genes, for searching for genes that have several nomenclatures like mto1, mod20 and mbo1 which are the same gene.</li>
<li>In 2002 we published a paper on the insertion sites of the retrotransposon Tf1. We sequenced the DNA flanking the insertions and were able to determine their position in the genome using your blast tools. In addition, the annotations of each gene were very useful in analyzing the insertions.</li>
<li>I use it routinely as a start-point for the analysis of any S. pombe gene.</li>
<li>our pombe work is as yet unfunded</li>
<li>Gene structure (introns, exons), amplification of cDNA, targeting, interacting partners</li>
<li>cloning-retrieveing sequences protein expected sizes pI basic informations about function</li>
<li>yes! We do fission yeast proteomics and the data base helped us in every aspect of our work</li>
<li>The data and curation have been fundamental to all my recent publications.Without this these publications would not have been possible. Greenall A, Williams ES, Martin KA, Palmer JM, Gray J, Liu C, Whitehall SK. (2006) Hip3 interacts with the HIRA proteins Hip1 and Slm9 and is required for transcriptional silencing and accurate chromosome segregation. J Biol Chem. 281(13):8732-9. Blackwell, C., Martin, K.A., Greenall, A., Pidoux, A. Allshire, R.C. &amp; Whitehall, S.K. (2004) The S. pombe HIRA-like protein Hip1 is required for the periodic expression of histone genes and contributes to the function of complex centromeres. Mol. Cell. Biol. 24: 4309-4320. Stiefel J., Wang, L., Kelly, D.A., Janoo, R.T.K., Seitz, J., Whitehall, S.K. &amp; Hoffman, C.S. (2004) Isolation and characterization of suppressors of an adenylate cyclase in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Euk. Cell 3: 610-619. Borrelly, G.P.M., Harrison, M.D., Robinson, A.K., Cox, S.G., Robinson, N.J. &amp; Whitehall, S.K. (2002) Surplus zinc is handled by Zym1 metallothionein and Zhf endoplasmic reticulum transporter in S. pombe. J. Biol Chem. 277: 30394-30400. Greenall, A., Hadcroft, A.P., Malakasi P., Jones N., Morgan B.A., Hoffman C.S., &amp; Whitehall S.K. (2002) Role of the fission yeast Tup1-like repressors and the Prr1 transcription factor in the response to salt stress Mol. Biol. Cell. 13: 2977-2989.</li>
<li>Identification of homologues for membrane-trafficking genes, including some in S.cervisiae which we suspected may be represented in S.pombe. This has allowed construction of GFP fusions, and determination of phenotypes; we&#39;ve managed to dissect part of the previously-unknown cvt pathway for vacuolar targetting in recent months as a result.</li>
<li>Quick identification of S. pombe homologues of genes from other species. This has formed the basis of much of the group&#39;s current work. This would be possible without GeneDB but much more laborious.</li>
<li>The meiotic expression profile of genes is very useful to know the character of the isolated genes, which might be involved in meiotic progression. Kitajima, T. S., Kawashima, S. A. and Watanabe, Y. The conserved kinetochore protein shugoshin protects centromeric cohesion during meiosis. Nature 427, 510-517 (2004). Yokobayashi, S. and Watanabe, Y. The kinetochore protein Moa1 enables cohesion-mediated monopolar attachment at meiosis I. Cell 123, 803-817 (2005)</li>
<li>Necessary background for the day by day work in the lab: design of new experiments, construction of strains etc.</li>
<li>Identification of homologues and of interesting characteristics, as yet unpublished.</li>
<li>Data was vital for Identification and verification of microarray targets</li>
<li>Data and curation are essential for our research on a day to day basis.</li>
<li>Very important to identify homologues</li>
<li>I used the information for cross species comparisons of expression data (manuscript in prep)</li>
<li>I have been helped and supported in the context of a collaborative study with Jurg Bahler group on cisplatin injury response that has been published in Cell Mol Life Sciences 61:2253-2263, 2004 - Gatti L et al.I strongly feel that model organisms like fission yeast could improve the understanding of processes relevant to the cure of cancer i. e pathways activated by antitumor drugs in mammalian cells (see Perego P et al., Pharmacol Reviews 52: 477-491, 2000.</li>
<li>Quick and easy access to commonly required gene and sequence information.</li>
<li>Peng et al (2005) Mol. Biol. Cell 16:1026 Bimbo et al (2005) Euk. Cell 4:799-813</li>
<li>Gene expression microarrys data: this allowed us to know that chs2 (a gene with similarity to Chitin Synthases genes that codifies a protein lacking such catalythic activity) was being expressed in vegetative cell cycle in fission yeast-it was not a pseudogene. To gain basic (and quickly)information about genes with which chs2 presents genetic interaction. Publications: ?In Schizosaccharomyces pombe chs2p has no chitin synthase activity but is related to septum formation?. Mart&radic;&ne;n Garc&radic;&ne;a, R.M., Dur&radic;&deg;n, A., Valdivieso, M.H. 2003. FEBS Letters 549: 176-180. -?The fission yeast Chs2p interacts with the type-II myosin Myo3p and is required for the integrity of the actomyosin ring?. Mart&radic;&ne;n Garc&radic;&ne;a, R.M., Valdivieso, M.H. 2006. J.Cell Science. (In Press).</li>
<li>Annotations of some bgs genes helped in their cloning and deletion.</li>
<li>no</li>
<li>essential for validation of gene regulatory network inference from microarray data</li>
<li>to identify microarrays candidates (to annotate), functions by homology Look for sequences of gene, to design primer, design fusions ...</li>
<li>identification of the spombe homolog of Ace2 (Mart&radic;&ne;n-Cuadrado et al (2003) J. Cell Sci. 116, 1689-1698)</li>
<li>I found out that a second homologue of my gene of interest exist and have therefore started to analyse this in addition.</li>
<li>Have been immesely useful in identifying orthologues for proteins studied in other organisms. The DB is also very important for obtaining first glance information on expression profiles in various conditions.</li>
<li>mRNA expression profile (meiosis) helped a lot to decide on certain genes to include in a complex finding strategy.</li>
<li>sequence info for genertaing KOs and tagged genes comparisons to yeast microarray data for groups of genes with similar expression profiles gene function descriptions link to forsburg page for plasmid info etc</li>
<li>Yes, enormously. Too many examples to list.</li>
<li>The Fission Yeast Database is an essential tool for all the research done in my lab. Most if not all of the publications from my lab. have in some way or another relied on information from it. I do not believe I could continue research using this model organism in the post-genomic era without this facility.</li>
<li>The domain structure prediction gave us an idea of the function. Tajadura et al. 2004 Journal of cell Science</li>
<li>Curation of GO terms is essential for all work with pombe. GeneDB is an essential resource</li>
<li>The data and curation are continually helpful, because they permit me to quickly evaluate what is know about each new fission yeast gene that I come across.</li>
<li>very helpful for my research since i started working with homologs of budding yeast knowing nothing about them in fission yeast</li>
<li>Gene and genome evolution</li>
<li>My students are using the DB much more extensively than I, almost on a daily basis, for primer design, search for chromosomal locations of cosmids for the use as FISH probes, etc. For them, and hence for the group it is indispensable.</li>
<li>All my research and publications for the last several years were not possible without the S. pombe database. I use the database everyday to determine which gene I should work on and retrieve its sequence information to design strategies for gene disruption and gene tagging. Also easy to retrieve DNA and protein sequences for homolog search and analyze domain structures of proteins.</li>
<li>1. Sequence retrieval to design PCRs and blast genome for primer sequences. 2. GO annotations to identify groups of genes (e.g. localizing to the nuclear envelope). This as a starting point for litterature searches and definition of hypotheses.</li>
<li>it helps enormously to have all information at the same place, to find the right sequence, micro-arry data and so on</li>
<li>This resource has saved time in cloning genes, analyzing plasmids that have rescued mutant strains, etc.</li>
<li>writing my mini master&#39;s thesis...it helped me find relevant papers</li>
<li>Orthologue relationships have been used in informal validation of automated orthologue prediction methods. GO annotation is being used in validation of bioinformatic predictions of functional linkage between gene products. The latter has previously only been systematically tested for S. cerevisiae and only with protein complexes (Barker D &amp; Pagel M, 2005, PLoS Comput Biol, 1, 24-31).</li>
<li>Find Artemis extremely useful in design of primers for homologous recombination and for determining relevant gene regulatory regions.</li>
<li>- identification of structural and functional features of pombe genes and proteins - identification of pombe homologs to genes of ther organisms - correlation of gene orders and genetic distances with physical map - planning of recombination analysis along chromosomes and at specific genes: Gregan et al (2005) Novel genes required for meiotic chromosome segregation are identified by a high-throughput knockout screen in fission yeast. Curr Biol, 15 1663- 1669, several publications in preparation</li>
<li>The expression pattern profiles have helped to identify my genes of interest.</li>
<li>It is the first place to search when moving onto a new field and gives information on where to continue looking for data. After carefully looking through all the infomration and all teh links on the gene of interest I get a very good picture of the function of teh gene.</li>
<li>Virtually every one of our publications has benefited enormously from having the easily accessible annotated genome information easily available. Examples are listed below. B&radic;&sect;hler, J., Steever, A.B., Wheatley, S., Wang, Y-L., Pringle, J.R., Gould K.L., and McCollum, D. (1998). Role of polo kinase and Mid1p in determining the site of cell division in fission yeast. J. Cell Biol. 143:1603-1616. Feoktistova, A., McCollum, D., Ohi, R., and Gould, K. L. (1999). Identification and characterization of Schizosaccharomyces pombe asp1+, a gene which interacts with mutations in the Arp2/3 complex and actin. Genetics. 152:895-908. Sparks, C.A., Morphew, M., and McCollum, D. (1999). Sid2p, a spindle pole body kinase that regulates the onset of cytokinesis. J. Cell Biol. 146:777-790. McCollum, D., Balasubramanian, M., and Gould, K.L. (1999). Isolation of cold-sensitive actin mutants defective for cytokinesis and polarized cell growth in fission yeast. FEBS Lett. 451:321-326. Guertin, D., Chang, L., Irshad, F., Gould, K.L., and McCollum, D. (2000). The role of the Sid1p kinase and Cdc14p in a novel signaling pathway that regulates the onset of cytokinesis in fission yeast. EMBO J. 19:1803-1815. Hou, M.C., and McCollum, D. (2000). Mob1p interacts with the Sid2p kinase and is required for cytokinesis in fission yeast. Curr. Biol. 10:619-622. Trautmann, S., Wolfe, B.A., Jorgensen, P., Tyers, M., Gould K.L., and McCollum. D. (2001). Fission yeast Clp1p phosphatase regulates G2/M transition and coordination of cytokinesis with cell cycle progression. Curr. Biol. 11:931-940. Wang, H., Tang, X., Liu, J., Trautmann, S., Balasundaram, D., McCollum, D., and Balasubramanian, M. (2002). The multiprotein exocyst complex is essential for cell separation in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Mol. Biol. Cell. 13: 515-529. Guertin, D.A., Venkatram, S., Gould, K.L., and McCollum D. (2002). Dma1p prevents mitotic exit and cytokinesis by inhibiting the Septation Initiation Network (SIN). Dev. Cell. 3:779-790. Hou, M.C., Wiley, D.J., Verde, F., and McCollum, D. (2003). Mob2p interacts with Orb6p kinase to promote coordination of cell polarity with the cell cycle progression. J. Cell Sci. 116:125-35 Jin, Q.-W., and McCollum, D. (2003) Scw1p antagonizes the septation initiation network to regulate septum formation and cell separation in fission yeast. Euk. Cell. 2:510-520. Hou, M.-C., Guertin, D.A., and McCollum, D. (2004) Initiation of Cytokinesis is Controlled through Multiple Modes of Regulation of the Sid2p-Mob1p Kinase Complex. Mol. Cell. Biol. 24:3262-3276. Mitra, P., Zhang, Y., Rameh, L., Ivshina, M., McCollum, D., Nunnari, J., Hendricks, G., Kerr, M., Field, S., Cantley, L., and Ross, A. (2004). A Novel Phosphatidylinositol(3,4,5)P3 Pathway in Fission Yeast. J. Cell Biol. 166:205-11. Mishra M, Karagiannis, J., Trautmann, S., Wang, H., McCollum, D., Balasubramanian , M.K. (2004). The Clp1p/Flp1p phosphatase ensures completion of cytokinesis in response to minor perturbation of the cell division machinery in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. J Cell Sci. 117:3897-910. Trautmann, S., Rajagopalan, S., and McCollum, D. (2004) The S. pombe Cdc14-like phosphatase Clp1p regulates chromosome bi-orientation and interacts with aurora kinase. Dev. Cell. 7:755-62 Trautmann, S., and McCollum, D. (2005) Distinct nuclear and cytoplasmic functions of the S. pombe Cdc14-like phosphatase Clp1p/Flp1p and a role for nuclear shuttling in its regulation. Curr. Biol. 15:1384-1389.</li>
<li>In the last 4 years we have published 2 papers in J Biol Chem and 1 in Molecular Cell for which pombe gene database has been invaluable.</li>
<li>Link to microarray data base is extremely useful. We have found that pof1 is highly induced by cadnium, which led to publicatoin in EMBO J. (2005, Harrison et al.).</li>
<li>General improvement in speed and efficency by combining data into a single resource so that it reduces time spent searching primary literature or general gene databases to locate information. This is especially important working in a smaller institute where because of limited local library facilities much of the information is not available without delays ordering reprints or contacting authors.</li>
<li>No Thanks</li>
<li>I was able to conduct an in silico promoter analysis to predict my protein&#39;s binding sites in the genome.</li>
<li>when quoting a gene of interest in a publication it is easy to check the basic properties of the gene (function, location) and to find rapidly the relevant publications.</li>
<li>Helped a lot. Since the sequencing project was completed a lot of my research has been domain driven ie finding the function of a particular domain then looking for other pombe orf&#39;s which also contain this domain.eg UBA domain, Ubx domain, UBL domain Wikinson et al 2001, Nat Cell Biol, Vol3, 939-943. Hartmann-Petersen et al, 2004, Current Biology, Vol14, 824-828.</li>
<li>It is definitely an important tool, I do not want to miss. It is indispensable for planning crosses and design diverse constructs (deletions, tags, artificial markers for recombination assays, and so on), do bioinformatic searches and check orthologs in other organisms. I actually cannot, and fortunately do not have to, imagine how cumbersome it would be to get all this information without a very well maintained and curated database such as the pombe geneDB.</li>
<li>The unification of gene names among data is essential for combining data from various sources. I think GeneDB is the only manager for S.pombe gene names.</li>
<li>In general terms GeneDB has vastly improved the efficiency of my work. It allows me to get a handle on a gene of interest as soon as that gene has been identified as interesting.</li>
<li>Producing primers for construction of microarray data. Annotation of microarray datasets. Finding and annotating pombe orthologs.</li>
<li>Mostly we use it for designing primers for tagging and deletion, especially to know about upstream and downstream regions, and also to ensure that we do not disrupt or affect neighboring genes. Essentially all publications from my lab use this. Here are some publications: Snaith, H.A. and K.E. Sawin (2003) Fission yeast mod5p regulates polarized growth through anchoring of tea1p at cell tips. Nature 423:647-651. Sawin, K.E., P.C.C. Lourenco, H.A. Snaith (2004) Microtubule nucleation at non-spindle pole body microtubule-organizing centers requires fission yeast centrosomin-related protein mod20p. Curr. Biol. 14:763-775. Samejima, I., P.C.C. Lourenco, H. A. Snaith, K.E. Sawin (2005) Fission yeast mto2p regulates microtubule nucleation by the centrosomin-related protein mto1p. Mol. Biol. Cell 16:3040-3051. Snaith, H.A., I. Samejima, K.E. Sawin (2005) Multistep and multimode cortical anchoring of tea1p at cell tips in fission yeast. EMBO J. 24:3690-3699.</li>
<li>The sequence and annotation data for the genome was the starting point for our new oligonucleotide microarray using 70-mers for each annotated exon, intron, and 3&#39; UTR. It would not have been possible without it.</li>
<li>The gene name for S. pombe alpha-glucanases was changed from my personal preference &#39;agl&#39; to the reserved gene name &#39;agn&#39; during the review process of our manuscript Mol. Biol. Cell. 2004; 15: 3903-14 (see title), based on comments of an anonymous reviewer who recommended to keep gene names consistent within the S. pombe community. I now double-check your list carefully before submission of a new manuscript.</li>
<li>Quick at a glance, searches of Genes-of-interest e.g. candidate comes up in a screen. Additional validation for the hit is quickly needed. Information from geneDB is crucial. Also Comparisions of conserved pathways in different organims is important and GeneDG is a place where you comfortably find data over several model organisms,</li>
<li>identification of human disease homologue (Gachet et al 2005)</li>
<li>It is absolutely mandatory to have a very reliable database to carry on research in any lab.</li>
<li>Finding information on genes of interest</li>
<li>Allowed us to identify Nbs1 (Chahwan 2003 MCB 23:6564), the RNAi machinery (Sigova 2004 G&amp;D 18:2359) and replication origins (Patel 2006 MBC 17:308). None of these could have been done by simple BLAST searches.</li>
<li>We have used it extensively for information regarding genes we identify and for predicting possible candidate genes together with our mapping experiment. I use it to quickly access ORF sequences to use in PCR primer designs. In the past few years, the research or writing of these papers heavily depended on access to GeneDB. Curr Genet. 2006 Feb 21; [Epub ahead of print] Genetics. 2006 Feb 19; [Epub ahead of print] Genetics. 2005 Dec;171(4):1523-33. Epub 2005 Sep 2. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2005 Apr 26;102(17):6108-13. Epub 2005 Apr 14. Eukaryot Cell. 2004 Jun;3(3):610-9. Eukaryot Cell. 2002 Aug;1(4):558-67. Genetics. 2001 Mar;157(3):1205-15. Genetics. 2001 Mar;157(3):1159-68. Genetics. 2000 Oct;156(2):513-21.</li>
<li>since inception it has influenced in some way, all of my publications http://www.paulgyoung.com/gradbrochure.htm</li>
<li>Example: we conducted a screen for novel replication mutants (Gomez. angeles and Forsburg, Genetics 2005). This required that we identify the gene corresponding to the mutant. We did this by cloning from a genomic library; naturally tehre were multiple genes per clone. The curation was invaluable in sorting out likely candidates for novel or known replication genes.</li>
<li>Find orthologues of my genes of interest</li>
<li>Yes, all the information I need about sequences, consensus sites, and more I have it from Sp database. I add publications were to make the work I had the information from Sp database. .- Maribel S&radic;&deg;nchez-Piris,Francesc Posas, Vicen&radic;ß Alemany, Ingerborg Winge, Elena Hidalgo, Oriol Bachs and Rosa Aligue. The serine/threonine kinase Cmk2 is a target of the Sty1 MAPK and is required for oxidative stress response in fission yeast. Journal of Biological Chemistry 227: 17722-17727. 2002. .- Vicen&radic;ß Alemany, Maribel S&radic;&deg;nchez-Piris, Oriol Bachs and Rosa Aligue. Characterization of Cmk2, a new serine/threonine kinase in fission yeast. FEBS Letters 524:79-86. 2002 .- Sandra L&radic;&ge;pez-Avil&radic;&copy;s, Maribel Grande, marta Gonz&radic;&deg;lez, Oriol Bachs and Rosa Aligue. .- Sandra L&radic;&ge;pez-Avil&radic;&copy;s, Marta Gonz&radic;&deg;lez, Asse-Lill Helgesen, Maribel Grande, Vicen&radic;ß Alemany, Maribel Sanchez-Piris, Oriol Bachs, Jonathan Millar and Rosa Aligue. Regulation of the Cdc25 phosphatase by the stress-activated kinase Srk1 in fission yeast Molecular Cell 17: 49-59. 2005.</li>
<li>It has made it easier to quickly check gene information, resulting in less wasted time in searching multiple databases for bits of information</li>
</ol>